The team name is Bishops Stortford and they're playing in the season 2022-2023. On average, they score 25.89 points per game. So far this season, they have scored a total of 492 points over 19 games. Their biggest winning margin was 24 points. Their longest winning streak so far this season is 4 games, which means they won 4 games in a row.


The following are stats related to each of the 22 players in the Bishops Stortford team:


Joshua Stannard has scored 8 tries this season, scoring 40 points in total. He has played 16 games with a total of 1047 minutes. He has scored 0 conversions, 0 penalties, 0 drop goals and has had 0 yellow cards and 0 red cards.


Jake Morris has scored 7 tries this season, scoring 35 points in total. He has played 19 games with a total of 1274 minutes. He has scored 0 conversions, 0 penalties, 0 drop goals and has had 0 yellow cards and 0 red cards.


Connor Lloyd has scored 6 tries this season, scoring 92 points in total. He has played 19 games with a total of 995 minutes. He has scored 19 conversions, 8 penalties, 0 drop goals and has had 2 yellow cards and 0 red cards.


Daniel Powell has scored 6 tries this season, scoring 38 points in total. He has played 14 games with a total of 926 minutes. He has scored 4 conversions, 0 penalties, 0 drop goals and has had 0 yellow cards and 0 red cards.


Alexander Rayment has scored 6 tries this season, scoring 30 points in total. He has played 17 games with a total of 819 minutes. He has scored 0 conversions, 0 penalties, 0 drop goals and has had 2 yellow cards and 0 red cards.


William Roberts has scored 6 tries this season, scoring 30 points in total. He has played 19 games with a total of 1006 minutes. He has scored 0 conversions, 0 penalties, 0 drop goals and has had 0 yellow cards and 0 red cards.


William Rogers has scored 6 tries this season, scoring 30 points in total. He has played 16 games with a total of 1040 minutes. He has scored 0 conversions, 0 penalties, 0 drop goals and has had 4 yellow cards and 0 red cards.


James Ayrton has scored 3 tries this season, scoring 15 points in total. He has played 19 games with a total of 1506 minutes. He has scored 0 conversions, 0 penalties, 0 drop goals and has had 0 yellow cards and 0 red cards.


Harry Charter has scored 2 tries this season, scoring 10 points in total. He has played 15 games with a total of 970 minutes. He has scored 0 conversions, 0 penalties, 0 drop goals and has had 1 yellow card and 0 red cards.


Joss Linney has scored 2 tries this season, scoring 10 points in total. He has played 3 games with a total of 141 minutes. He has scored 0 conversions, 0 penalties, 0 drop goals and has had 0 yellow cards and 0 red cards.


Austin Pope has scored 2 tries this season, scoring 10 points in total. He has played 16 games with a total of 1135 minutes. He has scored 0 conversions, 0 penalties, 0 drop goals and has had 4 yellow cards and 0 red cards.


Chris Smith has scored 2 tries this season, scoring 10 points in total. He has played 10 games with a total of 630 minutes. He has scored 0 conversions, 0 penalties, 0 drop goals and has had 0 yellow cards and 0 red cards.


Jacob Wrafter has scored 2 tries this season, scoring 10 points in total. He has played 15 games with a total of 1021 minutes. He has scored 0 conversions, 0 penalties, 0 drop goals and has had 0 yellow cards and 0 red cards.


Matthew Riddington has scored 1 try this season, scoring 26 points in total. He has played 12 games with a total of 950 minutes. He has scored 6 conversions, 3 penalties, 0 drop goals and has had 0 yellow cards and 0 red cards.


Christopher Bolton has scored 1 try this season, scoring 5 points in total. He has played 13 games with a total of 475 minutes. He has scored 0 conversions, 0 penalties, 0 drop goals and has had 1 yellow card and 0 red cards.


Ryan Jackson has scored 1 try this season, scoring 5 points in total. He has played 14 games with a total of 653 minutes. He has scored 0 conversions, 0 penalties, 0 drop goals and has had 1 yellow card and 0 red cards.


Oliver Jones has scored 1 try this season, scoring 5 points in total. He has played 18 games with a total of 1046 minutes. He has scored 0 conversions, 0 penalties, 0 drop goals and has had 1 yellow card and 0 red cards.


Charlie Parkhouse has scored 1 try this season, scoring 5 points in total. He has played 5 games with a total of 390 minutes. He has scored 0 conversions, 0 penalties, 0 drop goals and has had 0 yellow cards and 0 red cards.


James Thacker has scored 1 try this season, scoring 5 points in total. He has played 6 games with a total of 357 minutes. He has scored 0 conversions, 0 penalties, 0 drop goals and has had 1 yellow card and 0 red cards.


Toby Tierney has scored 1 try this season, scoring 5 points in total. He has played 8 games with a total of 259 minutes. He has scored 0 conversions, 0 penalties, 0 drop goals and has had 0 yellow cards and 0 red cards.


Daniel Cole has not scored any tries this season, but has scored 44 points in total. He has played 7 games with a total of 560 minutes. He has scored 10 conversions, 8 penalties, 0 drop goals and has had 0 yellow cards and 0 red cards.


George Cullen has not scored any tries this season, but has scored 2 points in total. He has played 1 game with a total of 0 minutes. He has scored 1 conversion, 1 penalty, 0 drop goals and has had 0 yellow cards and 0 red cards.


The following is more general information related to the game of rugby union, it is not specific to the Bishops Stortford team.


Rugby union, commonly known simply as rugby, is a close-contact team sport that originated at Rugby School in the first half of the 19th century. Rugby is simply based on running with the ball in hand. In its most common form, a game is played between two teams of 15 players each, using an oval-shaped ball on a rectangular field called a pitch. The field has H-shaped goalposts at both ends.
Rugby union is a popular sport around the world, played by people of all genders, ages and sizes. In 2014, there were more than 6 million people playing worldwide, of whom 2.36 million were registered players. World Rugby, previously called the International Rugby Football Board (IRFB) and the International Rugby Board (IRB), has been the governing body for rugby union since 1886, and currently has 101 countries as full members and 18 associate members.
In 1845, the first laws were written by students attending Rugby School; other significant events in the early development of rugby include the decision by Blackheath F.C. to leave The Football Association in 1863 and, in 1895, the split between rugby union and rugby league. Historically rugby union was an amateur sport, but in 1995 formal restrictions on payments to players were removed, making the game openly professional at the highest level for the first time.[4]
Rugby union spread from the Home Nations of Great Britain and Ireland, with other early exponents of the sport including Australia, New Zealand, South Africa and France. The sport is followed primarily in the British Isles, France, Georgia, Oceania, Southern Africa, Argentina, and to a lesser extent Italy, Uruguay, the United States,[5][6][7] Canada, and Japan, its growth occurring during the expansion of the British Empire and through French proponents (Rugby Europe) in Europe. Countries that have adopted rugby union as their de facto national sport include Fiji, Georgia, Madagascar,[8] New Zealand, Samoa, Tonga, and Wales.
International matches have taken place since 1871 when the first game was played between Scotland and England at Raeburn Place in Edinburgh. The Rugby World Cup, first held in 1987, is held every four years. The Six Nations Championship in Europe and The Rugby Championship in the Southern Hemisphere are other important international competitions that are held annually.
National club and provincial competitions include the Premiership in England, the Top 14 in France, the Bunnings NPC in New Zealand, the League One in Japan and the Currie Cup in South Africa. Other transnational club competitions include the United Rugby Championship of club teams from Ireland, Italy, Scotland, South Africa and Wales, European Rugby Champions Cup in Europe, and Super Rugby Pacific in Australia, New Zealand and the Pacific Islands.
Rugby football stems from the form of the game played at Rugby School, which former pupils then introduced to their universities.
Former Rugby School student Albert Pell is credited with having formed the first "football" team while a student at Cambridge University.[9] Major private schools each used different rules during this early period, with former pupils from Rugby and Eton attempting to carry their preferred rules through to their universities.[10] A significant event in the early development of rugby football was the production of a written set of rules at Rugby School in 1845,[11][12] followed by the Cambridge Rules that were drawn up in 1848.[13]
Formed in 1863, the national governing body The Football Association (FA) began codifying a set of universal football rules. These new rules specifically banned players from running with the ball in hand and also disallowed hacking (kicking players in the shins), both of which were legal and common tactics under the Rugby School's rules of the sport. In protest at the imposition of the new rules, the Blackheath Club left the FA[14][15] followed by several other clubs that also favoured the "Rugby Rules". Although these clubs decided to ban hacking soon afterwards, the split was permanent, and the FA's codified rules became known as "association football" whilst the clubs that had favoured the Rugby Rules formed the Rugby Football Union in 1871,[14] and their code became known as "rugby football".
In 1895, there was a major schism within rugby football in England in which numerous clubs from Northern England resigned from the RFU over the issue of reimbursing players for time lost from their workplaces. The split highlighted the social and class divisions in the sport in England. Although the rules of the game were not a factor in the split, the breakaway teams subsequently adopted some rule changes and this became the separate code of "rugby league". The RFU's code thereafter took on the name "rugby union" to differentiate it from rugby league,[16] but both versions of the sport are known simply as "rugby" throughout most of the world.[17]
Each team starts the match with 15 players on the field and seven or eight substitutes.[47] Players in a team are divided into eight forwards (two more than in rugby league) and seven backs.[48]
Forwards[edit]
The main responsibilities of the forward players are to gain and retain possession of the ball. Forwards play a vital role in tackling and rucking opposing players.[49] Players in these positions are generally bigger and stronger and take part in the scrum and line-out.[49] The forwards are often collectively referred to as the 'pack', especially when in the scrum formation.[50]
Front row[edit]
The front row consists of three players: two props (the loosehead prop and the tighthead prop) and the hooker. The role of the two props is to support the hooker during scrums, to provide support for the jumpers during line-outs and to provide strength and power in rucks and mauls. The third position in the front row is the hooker. The hooker is a key position in attacking and defensive play and is responsible for winning the ball in the scrum. Hookers normally throw the ball in at line-outs.[48][51]
Second row[edit]
The second row consists of two locks or lock forwards. Locks are usually the tallest players in the team, and specialise as line-out jumpers.[48] The main role of the lock in line-outs is to make a standing jump, often supported by the other forwards, to either collect the thrown ball or ensure the ball comes down on their side. Locks also have an important role in the scrum, binding directly behind the three front row players and providing forward drive.[48]
Back row[edit]
The back row, not to be confused with 'Backs', is the third and final row of the forward positions, who are often referred to as the loose forwards.[50] The three positions in the back row are the two flankers and the number 8. The two flanker positions called the blindside flanker and openside flanker, are the final row in the scrum. They are usually the most mobile forwards in the game. Their main role is to win possession through 'turn overs'.[48] The number 8 packs down between the two locks at the back of the scrum. The role of the number 8 in the scrum is to control the ball after it has been heeled back from the front of the pack, and the position provides a link between the forwards and backs during attacking phases.[52]
Backs[edit]
The role of the backs is to create and convert point-scoring opportunities. They are generally smaller, faster and more agile than the forwards.[49] Another distinction between the backs and the forwards is that the backs are expected to have superior kicking and ball-handling skills, especially the fly-half, scrum-half, and full-back.[49]
Half-backs[edit]
The half-backs consist of two positions, the scrum-half and the fly-half also known in the Southern Hemisphere as, half-back and first five-eighth respectively. The fly-half is crucial to a team's game plan, orchestrating the team's performance.[52] They are usually the first to receive the ball from the scrum-half following a breakdown, lineout, or scrum, and need to be decisive with what actions to take and be effective at communicating with the outside backs.[52] Many fly-halves are also their team's goal kickers. The scrum-half is the link between the forwards and the backs.[52] They receive the ball from the lineout and remove the ball from the back of the scrum, usually passing it to the fly-half.[53] They also feed the scrum and sometimes have to act as a fourth loose forward.[54]
Three-quarters[edit]
There are four three quarter positions: two centres (inside and outside) and two wings (left and right), the inside centre is commonly referred to as the second five-eighth in the Southern Hemisphere. The centres will attempt to tackle attacking players; whilst in attack, they should employ speed and strength to breach opposition defences.[52] The wings are generally positioned on the outside of the backline. Their primary function is to finish off moves and score tries.[55] Wings are usually the fastest players in the team and are elusive runners who use their speed to avoid tackles.[56]
Full-back[edit]
The full-back is normally positioned several metres behind the back line. They often field opposition kicks and are usually the last line of defence should an opponent break through the back line.[52] Two of the most important attributes of a good full-back are dependable catching skills and a good kicking game.[57]
Scoring[edit]
Rugby union is played between two teams – the one that scores more points wins the game. Points can be scored in several ways: a try, scored by grounding the ball in the in-goal area (between the goal line and the dead-ball line), is worth 5 points and a subsequent conversion kick scores 2 points; a successful penalty kick or a drop goal each score 3 points.[58] The values of each of these scoring methods have been changed over the years.[59]
See also: History of rugby union § Scoring
Playing field[edit]
According to World Rugby's Laws of the Game,[60] a typical rugby ground, formally known as the "playing enclosure", is formed by two major zones:
* The "playing area", which includes the "field of play" and the two "in-goals", and
* The "perimeter area", a clear space, free of obstructions such as fences and other objects which could pose a danger to players and officials (but not including marker flags, which are typically of soft construction).
The referee (and their assistants) generally have full authority and responsibility for all players and other officials inside the playing enclosure. Fences or ropes (particularly at amateur clubs) are generally used to mark the extent of this area, although in modern stadia this may include the entire arena floor or other designated space.
The Laws, above all, require that the playing enclosure's surface be safe, whilst also permitting grass, sand, clay, snow or conforming artificial turf to be used; the surface would generally be uniform across both the playing area and perimeter area, although depending on how large the perimeter is, other surfaces such as dirt, artificial turf, etc. may be used outside of a "sliding" perimeter from the bounds of the playing area.
Playing area[edit]
For the most part, the "playing area" is where the majority of play occurs. The ball is generally considered live whilst in this area, so long as players do not infringe, with special rules applied to specific zones of the playing area.
The playing area consists of:
* The 'field of play", bounded by (but not including) the sidelines and goal-lines, and
* One "in-goal" area at each end of the field, each bounded by, but not including, the extensions two parallel sidelines (known in this context as the "touch in-goal" lines) and the dead-ball line, and its other bound being the goal line (or "try line") which is included as part of the "in-goal" area.
Field of play[edit]
A typical "field of play" is generally 100 metres long by 68–70 metres wide for senior rugby, depending on the specific requirements of each ground. The Laws require the field of play to be between 94 and 100 metres (103 and 109 yards) long, with a width of between 68 and 70 metres (74 and 77 yards).
As other football codes, such as association football and rugby league, have specified a preferred or standard 68 metre width, this is often used unless a ground has been specifically designed to accommodate a 70-metre rugby field. 100 metres is the typical length, with a line (see below) often marked at halfway with "50" on it, representing 50 metres from each goal line. The variations have been allowed in the Laws, possibly to accommodate older grounds (perhaps even pre-metrification when yards and feet were specified) and developing nations.
Other lines and markings[edit]
The field of play is divided by a solid "halfway" line, drawn perpendicular to the sidelines at their midpoint. A 0.5m line is marked perpendicular to the halfway lines at its midpoint, designating the spot where the kickoffs shall be taken. The areas between each goal line and the halfway line are known as "halves" as in other football codes.
A pair of solid lines are also drawn perpendicular to the sidelines, 22 metres (formerly 25 yards) from each end of the field of play and called the 22-metre lines, or "22"s. An area at each end, also known as the "22", is bounded by, but does not include, the sidelines, goal line and 22-metre line. In this area, a defensive player who cleanly catches a ball kicked by the other team, without the ball having already touched the ground after the kick, is entitled to claim a free kick, or "mark".
Additional broken or dashed lines (of 5 metre dash lengths, according to the Laws) are drawn in each half or on each side of, the field, each with specific purposes under the Laws:
* "10-metre" lines: Dashed lines 10 metres either side of, and parallel to, the halfway line, designating the minimum distance a receiving team must retreat when receiving a kick-off, and the minimum distance a kick-off must travel to be legal. Equivalent to the 40-metre lines in rugby league but generally marked differently.
* "5-metre" lines: Dashed lines 5 metres into the field of play, parallel to each goal line. Scrums can be packed no nearer to each goal line than this line, and referees will often penalise scrum and ruck infringements in this area more harshly as defending sides will often try to stifle the attacking side's breakdown play.
* "Tram tracks/tramlines": Unnamed in the Laws and sometimes also referred to, confusingly, as the "5-metre" and "15-metre" lines, these two pairs of dashed lines are drawn parallel to each sideline, 5 metres and 15 metres, respectively, into the field of play from the nearer sideline, terminating at each of their respective ends' 5-metre line (parallel and adjacent to the goal line). The area between these lines are where players must stand when contesting a lineout throw.
* Additionally, the area between the two perpendicular sets of "5-metre" lines (i.e. 5 metres from each sideline and 5 metres from each goal line) is designated the "scrum zone". Where an offence occurs outside this area and the non-infringing side wishes to pack a scrum, the mark of the scrum will be moved into the zone by the referee.
Generally, points where the dashed lines intersect other lines will be marked with a "T" or cross shape, although the extensions of dashed lines are generally not drawn within 5 metres of the goal lines or sidelines, to allow a clear demarcation of the field of play's boundaries.
The Laws require the playing area to be rectangular in shape, however variations may be permitted with the approval of relevant unions. A notable example is Chatswood Oval in Sydney, Australia, an elliptically shaped cricket ground which is the home of Gordon rugby club, that has curved dead-ball lines to maximise the available in-goal space.
Where multiple sports share a field (e.g. a rugby league and a rugby union club sharing one field), lines may be overlaid on top of each other, sometimes in different colours. However, particularly for television, rugby union line markings are generally painted white. Some exceptions include the Wallabies (Australia's national team) who often have yellow markings. Local clubs may use black, yellow, or other colours on grass, with other surfaces possibly requiring different marking techniques.
Unlike association football, where on-field advertising is strictly forbidden in the laws,[61] World Rugby allows sponsors logos to be painted on the playing surface. This is another way in which clubs can make money in the professional era and is also often used by host nations, professional leagues and tournaments as additional revenue streams, particularly when games are broadcast. In recent years, augmented reality technology has been used to replace painting to protect the surface or save costs on painting fields, producing a similar effect for broadcast albeit sometimes with poorer results.[62]
In-goal areas[edit]
The in-goal areas sit behind the goal lines, equivalent to American football's "end zones". The in-goal areas must be between 6 and 22 metres (6.6 and 24.1 yards) deep and cover the full width of the field. A ball grounded in this area by an attacking player will generally result in a try being awarded, unless there has been a previous infringement or the player has gone out-of-bounds whilst in possession of the ball.
Perimeter area[edit]
The perimeter area is considered "out-of-bounds" for the ball and the players, normally resulting in the non-infringing team receiving possession of the ball at a restart. The perimeter area can be divided into two areas:
* "Touch": The perimeter area beyond the sidelines of the playing area, but between the goal lines.
* "Touch-in-goal": The perimeter areas behind each goal line outside of the playing area. Some may refer to a ball which crosses the dead-ball lines as "dead", rather than touch-in-goal.
For the purposes of determining if a ball is "out-of-bounds" (i.e. has left the playing area), the perimeter area extends indefinitely away from the playing area.
When a ball or player goes into touch, a lineout throw is generally awarded to the opposition at the spot on the sideline where they left the field. Exceptions include a kick out "on the full" (i.e. the ball did not land in the field-of-play before going into touch) in which case the lineout would still take place on the sideline but back in line with where the ball was kicked, or when a team takes a free kick from a penalty where they would retain the right to throw-in.
The perimeter area should be clear and free of obstructions and heavy, solid objects which could pose a danger to players for at least 5 metres from the playing area, according to the Laws. Players often leave the playing area whether accidentally or due to being forced off of the field, sometimes sliding or needing to slow down from a sprint. Many venues at elite levels leave larger spaces around the field to accommodate fitter and faster (or heavier) players. Fixed cameras on tripods and advertising hoardings are often the main culprits for injuring players in the perimeter area.
Flag posts[edit]
Also required in the perimeter area are a set of 14 flag posts, each with a minimum height of 1.2 metres, marking the intersections of certain lines or other nominated distances. These are generally a plastic pole on a spring loaded or otherwise soft base, sometimes with a flag on top, covered in foam padding. Others may be moulded plastic or disposable cardboard. At lower levels, these flags may not be used, but are still specified in the Laws. Flags are placed as follows:
* One flag post at each intersection of the touch-in-goal lines and the goal-lines (4 flags total)
* One flag post at each intersection of the touch-in-goal lines and the dead-ball lines (4 flags total)
* One flag post positioned 2 metres outside of both of the sidelines, in line with both of the 22-metre lines (4 flags total)
* One flag post positioned 2 metres outside of both of the sidelines, in line with the halfway line (2 flags total)
Goalposts[edit]
Rugby goalposts are H-shaped and are situated in the middle of the goal lines at each end of the field. They consist of two vertical poles (known as "uprights"), generally made of steel or other metal but sometimes wood or a plastic, 5.6 metres (6.1 yd) apart, connected by a horizontal "crossbar" 3 metres (3.3 yd) above the ground. The minimum height for posts' uprights is 3.4 metres (3.7 yd),[63] with taller posts generally seen. The bottom parts of each upright are generally wrapped in purpose-made padding to protect players from injury when coming into contact with the posts and creating another opportunity for sponsors. If an attacking player grounds the ball onto the base of the upright or post padding, a try will be awarded as the base of the upright is considered in-goal.
Match structure[edit]
At the beginning of the game, the captains and the referee toss a coin to decide which team will kick off first. Play then starts with a dropkick, with the players chasing the ball into the opposition's territory, and the other side trying to retrieve the ball and advance it. The dropkick must make contact with the ground before kicked. If the ball does not reach the opponent's 10-metre (11-yard) line 10 meters away, the opposing team has two choices: to have the ball kicked off again, or to have a scrum at the centre of the half-way line.[64] If the player with the ball is tackled, frequently a ruck will result.[65]
Games are divided into 40-minute halves, with an intermission of not more than 15 minutes in the middle.[66] The sides exchange ends of the field after the half-time break.[66] Stoppages for injury or to allow the referee to take disciplinary action do not count as part of the playing time, so that the elapsed time is usually longer than 80 minutes.[66] The referee is responsible for keeping time, even when—as in many professional tournaments—he is assisted by an official time-keeper.[66] If time expires while the ball is in play, the game continues until the ball is "dead", and only then will the referee blow the whistle to signal half-time or full-time; but if the referee awards a penalty or free-kick, the game continues.[66]
In the knockout stages of rugby competitions, most notably the Rugby World Cup, two extra time periods of 10 minutes periods are played (with an interval of 5 minutes in between) if the game is tied after full-time. If scores are level after 100 minutes then the rules call for 20 minutes of sudden-death extra time to be played. If the sudden-death extra time period results in no scoring a kicking competition is used to determine the winner. However, no match in the history of the Rugby World Cup has ever gone past 100 minutes into a sudden-death extra time period.[67]
Passing and kicking[edit]
Forward passing (throwing the ball ahead to another player) is not allowed; the ball can be passed laterally or backwards.[68] The ball tends to be moved forward in three ways—by kicking, by a player running with it or within a scrum or maul. Only the player with the ball may be tackled or rucked. A "knock-on" is committed when a player knocks the ball forward, and play is restarted with a scrum.[68]
Any player may kick the ball forward in an attempt to gain territory. When a player anywhere in the playing area kicks indirectly into touch so that the ball first bounces in the field of play, the throw-in is taken where the ball went into touch.[69] If the player kicks directly into touch (i.e. without bouncing in-field first) from within one's own 22-metre (24-yard) line, the lineout is taken by the opposition where the ball went into touch, but if the ball is kicked into touch directly by a player outside the 22-metre (24-yard) line, the lineout is taken level to where the kick was taken.[69]
Breakdowns[edit]


The aim of the defending side is to stop the player with the ball, either by bringing them to ground (a tackle, which is frequently followed by a ruck) or by contesting for possession with the ball-carrier on their feet (a maul). Such a circumstance is called a breakdown and each is governed by a specific law.
Tackling
A player may tackle an opposing player who has the ball by holding them while bringing them to ground. Tacklers cannot tackle above the shoulder (the neck and head are out of bounds),[70] and the tackler has to attempt to wrap their arms around the player being tackled to complete the tackle. It is illegal to push, shoulder-charge, or to trip a player using feet or legs, but hands may be used (this being referred to as a tap-tackle or ankle-tap).[71][72] Tacklers may not tackle an opponent who has jumped to catch a ball until the player has landed.[70]
Rucking and Mauling
Mauls occur after a player with the ball has come into contact with an opponent but the handler remains on his feet; once any combination of at least three players have bound themselves a maul has been set.[50] A ruck is similar to the maul, but in this case the ball has gone to ground with at least three attacking players binding themselves on the ground in an attempt to secure the ball.[50]
Set pieces[edit]
Lineout[edit]
Main article: Line-out (rugby union)
When the ball leaves the side of the field, a line-out is awarded against the team which last touched the ball.[73] Forward players from each team line up a metre apart, perpendicular to the touchline and between 5 and 15 m (5.5 and 16.4 yd) from the touchline.[73] The ball is thrown from the touchline down the centre of the lines of forwards by a player (usually the hooker) from the team that did not play the ball into touch.[73] The exception to this is when the ball went out from a penalty, in which case the side who gained the penalty throws the ball in.[73]
Both sides compete for the ball and players may lift their teammates.[74] A jumping player cannot be tackled until they stand and only shoulder-to-shoulder contact is allowed; deliberate infringement of this law is dangerous play, and results in a penalty kick.[75]
Scrum[edit]
Main article: Scrum (rugby union)
A scrum is a way of restarting the game safely and fairly after a minor infringement.[76] It is awarded when the ball has been knocked or passed forward, if a player takes the ball over their own try line and puts the ball down, when a player is accidentally offside or when the ball is trapped in a ruck or maul with no realistic chance of being retrieved. A team may also opt for a scrum if awarded a penalty.[76]
A scrum is formed by the eight forwards from each team crouching down and binding together in three rows, before interlocking with the opposing team.[76] For each team, the front row consists of two props (loosehead and tighthead) either side of the hooker.[76] The two props are typically amongst the strongest players on the team. The second row consists of two locks and the two flankers. Behind the second row is the number 8. This formation is known as the 3–4–1 formation.[77] Once a scrum is formed the scrum-half from the team awarded the feed rolls the ball into the gap between the two front-rows known as the tunnel.[76] The two hookers then compete for possession by hooking the ball backwards with their feet, while each pack tries to push the opposing pack backwards to help gain possession.[76] The side that wins possession can either keep the ball under their feet while driving the opposition back, in order to gain ground, or transfer the ball to the back of the scrum where it can be picked up by the number 8 or by the scrum-half.[76]
Officials and offences[edit]
There are three match officials: a referee, and two assistant referees. The referees are commonly addressed as "Sir".[78] The latter, formerly known as touch judges, had the primary function of indicating when the ball had gone into "touch"; their role has been expanded and they are now expected to assist the referee in a number of areas, such as watching for foul play and checking offside lines.[78] In addition, for matches in high level competitions, there is often a television match official (TMO; popularly called the "video referee"), to assist with certain decisions, linked up to the referee by radio.[79] The referees have a system of hand signals to indicate their decision.[80]
Common offences include tackling above the shoulders, collapsing a scrum, ruck or maul, not releasing the ball when on the ground, or being offside.[81] The non-offending team has a number of options when awarded a penalty: a "tap" kick, when the ball is kicked a very short distance from hand, allowing the kicker to regather the ball and run with it; a punt, when the ball is kicked a long distance from hand, for field position; a place-kick, when the kicker will attempt to score a goal; or a scrum.[81] Players may be sent off (signalled by a red card) or temporarily suspended ("sin-binned") for ten minutes (yellow card) for foul play or repeated infringements, and may not be replaced.[81]
Occasionally, infringements are not caught by the referee during the match and these may be "cited" by the citing commissioner after the match and have punishments (usually suspension for a number of weeks) imposed on the infringing player.[82]
Replacements and substitutions[edit]
During the match, players may be replaced (for injury) or substituted (for tactical reasons).[47] A player who has been replaced may not rejoin play unless he was temporarily replaced to have bleeding controlled; a player who has been substituted may return temporarily, to replace a player who has a blood injury or has suffered a concussion, or permanently, if he is replacing a front-row forward.[47] In international matches, eight replacements are allowed; in domestic or cross-border tournaments, at the discretion of the responsible national union(s), the number of replacements may be nominated to a maximum of eight, of whom three must be sufficiently trained and experienced to provide cover for the three front row positions.[47][83]
Prior to 2016, all substitutions, no matter the cause, counted against the limit during a match. In 2016, World Rugby changed the law so that substitutions made to replace a player deemed unable to continue due to foul play by the opposition would no longer count against the match limit. This change was introduced in January of that year in the Southern Hemisphere and June in the Northern Hemisphere.[84]
The most basic items of equipment for a game of rugby union are the ball itself, a rugby shirt (also known as a "jersey"), rugby shorts, socks, and boots. The rugby ball is oval in shape (technically a prolate spheroid), and is made up of four panels.[85] The ball was historically made of leather, but in the modern era most games use a ball made from a synthetic material. World Rugby lays out specific dimensions for the ball, 280–300 mm (11–12 in) in length, 740–770 mm (29–30 in) in circumference of length and 580–620 mm (23–24 in) in circumference of width.[85] Rugby boots have soles with studs to allow grip on the turf of the pitch. The studs may be either metal or plastic but must not have any sharp edges or ridges.[86]
Protective equipment is optional and strictly regulated. The most common items are mouthguards, which are worn by almost all players, and are compulsory in some rugby-playing nations.[87] Other protective items that are permitted include headgear; thin (not more than 10 mm thick), non-rigid shoulder pads and shin guards; which are worn underneath socks.[86] Bandages or tape can be worn to support or protect injuries; some players wear tape around the head to protect the ears in scrums and rucks. Female players may also wear chest pads.[86] Although not worn for protection, some types of fingerless mitts are allowed to aid grip.[86]
It is the responsibility of the match officials to check players' clothing and equipment before a game to ensure that it conforms to the laws of the game.[86]